---
UID: NS:werapi._WER_REPORT_METADATA_V3
tech.root: wer
title: WER_REPORT_METADATA_V3
ms.date: 07/21/2023
targetos: Windows
description: Contains information about an error report generated by Windows Error Reporting (WER).
prerelease: false
req.construct-type: structure
req.ddi-compliance: 
req.dll: 
req.header: werapi.h
req.include-header: 
req.kmdf-ver: 
req.lib: 
req.max-support: 
req.redist: 
req.target-min-winverclnt: 
req.target-min-winversvr: 
req.target-type: 
req.typenames: WER_REPORT_METADATA_V3, *PWER_REPORT_METADATA_V3
typedef_isUnnamed: false
req.umdf-ver: 
req.unicode-ansi: 
topic_type:
 - apiref
api_type:
 - HeaderDef
api_location:
 - werapi.h
api_name:
 - _WER_REPORT_METADATA_V3
 - PWER_REPORT_METADATA_V3
 - WER_REPORT_METADATA_V3
f1_keywords:
 - _WER_REPORT_METADATA_V3
 - werapi/_WER_REPORT_METADATA_V3
 - PWER_REPORT_METADATA_V3
 - werapi/PWER_REPORT_METADATA_V3
 - WER_REPORT_METADATA_V3
 - werapi/WER_REPORT_METADATA_V3
dev_langs:
 - c++
helpviewer_keywords:
 - _WER_REPORT_METADATA_V3
---

# WER_REPORT_METADATA_V3 structure

## -description

Contains information about an error report generated by [Windows Error Reporting](../_wer/index.md) (WER).

## -struct-fields

### -field Signature

A structure containing the signature of the report. The signature consists of the event name and event parameters present.

### -field BucketId

A hash of the signature. Can be used to cross reference with other crash reports with the same signature (currently not implemented).

### -field ReportId

A locally unique identifier for the report.

### -field CreationTime

A UTC time stamp of when the report was created.

### -field SizeInBytes

The size (on disk) of the individual report and its constituent files. This value only counts files directly contained in a report.

### -field CabId[MAX_PATH]

The cab identity value assigned by WER. Use this value to find the corresponding data in COSMOS/WER. Reports that have not uploaded successfully will not have this value.

### -field ReportStatus

The detailed status of the report. Use the ReportStatus decoder to track this bit-field.

### -field ReportIntegratorId

The integrator ID of the report.

### -field NumberOfFiles

The number of data files included in the report.

### -field SizeOfFileNames

The total size of the file name fields, in count of **WCHAR**s, including the terminating character for each name and one more at the end of the record.

### -field FileNames

A pointer to hold the names of the files included in the report. It is in the format: FileName001\0FileName002\0\FileName003\0\0.

### -field FriendlyEventName[WER_MAX_FRIENDLY_EVENT_NAME_LENGTH]

### -field ApplicationName[WER_MAX_APPLICATION_NAME_LENGTH]

### -field ApplicationPath[MAX_PATH]

### -field Description[WER_MAX_DESCRIPTION_LENGTH]

### -field BucketIdString[WER_MAX_BUCKET_ID_STRING_LENGTH]

### -field LegacyBucketId

## -remarks

## -see-also

[Windows Error Reporting](../_wer/index.md)
