---
UID: The unique id of the API.
title: The title of the API.
author: Authoring type of the API(ie windows-driver-content)
description: Description of API
old-location: 
old-project: 
ms.assetid: The MSDN ID of the API
ms.author: The Author of the API
ms.date: The date of API publishing
ms.keywords: 
ms.prod: windows-hardware
ms.technology: windows-devices
ms.topic: The topic type of the API (ie enum)
req.header: The main header of the API
req.include-header: The included headers of the API
req.target-type: 
req.target-min-winverclnt: 
req.target-min-winversvr: 
req.kmdf-ver: 
req.umdf-ver: 
req.ddi-compliance: 
req.unicode-ansi: 
req.idl: 
req.max-support: 
req.namespace: 
req.assembly: 
req.type-library: 
---

# _WER_REPORT_METADATA_V2 structure


## -description


Contains information about an error report generated by Windows Error Reporting.


## -struct-fields




### -field Signature

A structure containing the signature of the report. The signature consists of the event name and event parameters present.


### -field BucketId

A hash of the signature. Can be used to cross reference with other crash reports with the same signature (currently not implemented).



### -field ReportId

A locally unique identifier for the report.



### -field CreationTime

A UTC time stamp of when the report was created.



### -field SizeInBytes

The size (on disk) of the individual report and its constituent files. This value only counts files directly contained in a report.


### -field CabId

 


### -field ReportStatus

The detailed status of the report. Use the ReportStatus decoder to track this bit-field.


### -field ReportIntegratorId

The integrator ID of the report.


### -field NumberOfFiles

The number of data files included in the report.


### -field SizeOfFileNames

The total size of the file name fields, in count of <b>WCHAR</b>s, including the terminating character for each name and one more at the end of the record.


### -field FileNames

A pointer to hold the names of the files included in the report. It is in the format: FileName001\0FileName002\0\FileName003\0\0.


#### - CabID

The cab identity value assigned by WER. Use this value to find the corresponding data in COSMOS/WER. Reports that have not uploaded successfully will not have this value.


## -see-also




<a href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/ADF6619C-1F3E-4AFF-9E25-4F6F83D1353C">WerStoreQueryReportMetadataV2</a>
 

 

