---
UID: The unique id of the API.
title: The title of the API.
author: Authoring type of the API(ie windows-driver-content)
description: Description of API
old-location: 
old-project: 
ms.assetid: The MSDN ID of the API
ms.author: The Author of the API
ms.date: The date of API publishing
ms.keywords: 
ms.prod: windows-hardware
ms.technology: windows-devices
ms.topic: The topic type of the API (ie enum)
req.header: The main header of the API
req.include-header: The included headers of the API
req.target-type: 
req.target-min-winverclnt: 
req.target-min-winversvr: 
req.kmdf-ver: 
req.umdf-ver: 
req.ddi-compliance: 
req.unicode-ansi: 
req.idl: 
req.max-support: 
req.namespace: 
req.assembly: 
req.type-library: 
---

# _MI_Module structure


## -description


Generated by the provider, this object contains
   all the data needed by the provider manager to manage the providers within this
   module.


## -struct-fields




### -field version

The version the provider was compiled with (<b>MI_VERSION</b>).


### -field generatorVersion

The hex value of <b>MI_VERSION</b> when the generator was compiled.


### -field flags

Module flags.



#### MI_MODULE_FLAG_STANDARD_QUALIFIERS ((1 << 0))

Whether standard qualifiers were generated.



#### MI_MODULE_FLAG_DESCRIPTIONS ((1 << 1))

Whether description qualifiers were generated.



#### MI_MODULE_FLAG_VALUES ((1 << 2))

Whether Values and ValueMap qualifiers were generated.



#### MI_MODULE_FLAG_MAPPING_STRINGS ((1 << 3))

Whether the MappingStrings qualifiers were generated.



#### MI_MODULE_FLAG_BOOLEANS ((1 << 4))

Whether the boolean qualifiers were generated.



#### MI_MODULE_FLAG_LOCALIZED ((1 << 6))

Whether translatable qualifiers were localized (and STRING.RC generated).



#### MI_MODULE_FLAG_FILTER_SUPPORT ((1<<7))

Whether filters are supported.


### -field charSize

Size of the MI_Char in bytes.


### -field schemaDecl

Pointer to generated schema declarations (static providers only).


### -field Load

Function pointer that points to the provider's Load function where initialization takes place.


### -field Unload

Function pointer that points to the provider's Unload function where cleanup takes place.


### -field dynamicProviderFT

The module may implement a single 'dynamic provider' (one that provides CIM instances, CIM classes and CIM 
      qualifier declarations). The provider manager uses this function table when it is non-null, and 
      <b>schemaDecl</b> is <b>NULL</b> or does not contain runtime type 
      information (RTTI)  corresponding to the given request.


## -see-also




<a href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/6503B392-8670-4EED-8375-5A5518A6FD08">MI_Module_Load</a>



<a href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/6A1F07B4-7ED2-4716-8B76-2798108CD6F7">MI_Module_Unload</a>



<a href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/494eb3cb-6476-4fe3-8da4-dc7112c6f62f">MI_ProviderFT</a>



<a href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/70f1a14e-abd4-43e9-a7b4-fa00e07a125c">MI_SchemaDecl</a>
 

 

