---
UID: The unique id of the API.
title: The title of the API.
author: Authoring type of the API(ie windows-driver-content)
description: Description of API
old-location: 
old-project: 
ms.assetid: The MSDN ID of the API
ms.author: The Author of the API
ms.date: The date of API publishing
ms.keywords: 
ms.prod: windows-hardware
ms.technology: windows-devices
ms.topic: The topic type of the API (ie enum)
req.header: The main header of the API
req.include-header: The included headers of the API
req.target-type: 
req.target-min-winverclnt: 
req.target-min-winversvr: 
req.kmdf-ver: 
req.umdf-ver: 
req.ddi-compliance: 
req.unicode-ansi: 
req.idl: 
req.max-support: 
req.namespace: 
req.assembly: 
req.type-library: 
---

# IOPMVideoOutput::FinishInitialization


## -description


Completes the initialization sequence for an Output Protection Manager (OPM) session.


## -parameters




### -param pParameters [in]

Pointer to an <a href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/abcf0b84-7370-48da-b4dd-4faded6be343">OPM_ENCRYPTED_INITIALIZATION_PARAMETERS</a> structure. Initialize this structure as described in the Remarks session.


## -returns



Returns an <b>HRESULT. </b>Possible values include, but are not limited to, those in the following table.

<table>
<tr>
<th>Return code</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td width="40%">
<dl>
<dt><b>S_OK</b></dt>
</dl>
</td>
<td width="60%">
The method succeeded.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td width="40%">
<dl>
<dt><b>ERROR_GRAPHICS_OPM_DRIVER_INTERNAL_ERROR</b></dt>
</dl>
</td>
<td width="60%">
An unexpected error occurred the display driver.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td width="40%">
<dl>
<dt><b>ERROR_GRAPHICS_OPM_INVALID_ENCRYPTED_PARAMETERS</b></dt>
</dl>
</td>
<td width="60%">
The encrypted parameters in <i>pParameters</i> are incorrect.

</td>
</tr>
</table>
 




## -remarks



This method is equivalent to the <b>IAMCertifiedOutputProtection::SessionSequenceStart</b> method in Certified Output Protection Protocol (COPP).

The <i>pParameters</i> parameter points to an <b>OPM_ENCRYPTED_INITIALIZATION_PARAMETERS</b> structure that contains a 256-byte array. Before calling the method, prepare this array as follows. First, concatenate the following numbers:

<ul>
<li>The 128-bit number returned in the <i>prnRandomNumber</i> parameter of the <a href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/eeedeb4b-753f-4efb-b8ef-732cce116b42">IOPMVideoOutput::StartInitialization</a> method.</li>
<li>The AES signing key. This value is a 128-bit random number generated by the application.</li>
<li>The initial sequence number for OPM status requests. This value is a 32-bit random number generated by the application. </li>
<li>The initial sequence number for OPM commands. This value is a 32-bit random number generated by the application.</li>
</ul>
Encrypt this number with RAEAS-OAEP, encryption using the display driver's public encryption key. The public encryption key is contained in the certificate returned in the <i>ppbCertificate</i> parameter of the <b>StartInitialization</b> method.

The application must use cryptographically secure random numbers. The <b>CryptGenRandom</b> function is recommended, although not required.




## -see-also




<a href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/8bf43577-3535-4f62-ac81-bb7e3c329403">IOPMVideoOutput</a>



<a href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/daae615b-37c4-4044-91c6-693357e0016a">Output Protection Manager</a>
 

 

