---
UID: The unique id of the API.
title: The title of the API.
author: Authoring type of the API(ie windows-driver-content)
description: Description of API
old-location: 
old-project: 
ms.assetid: The MSDN ID of the API
ms.author: The Author of the API
ms.date: The date of API publishing
ms.keywords: 
ms.prod: windows-hardware
ms.technology: windows-devices
ms.topic: The topic type of the API (ie enum)
req.header: The main header of the API
req.include-header: The included headers of the API
req.target-type: 
req.target-min-winverclnt: 
req.target-min-winversvr: 
req.kmdf-ver: 
req.umdf-ver: 
req.ddi-compliance: 
req.unicode-ansi: 
req.idl: 
req.max-support: 
req.namespace: 
req.assembly: 
req.type-library: 
---

# IWMDRMWriter::GenerateSigningKeyPair


## -description


<p class="CCE_Message">[<b>GenerateSigningKeyPair</b> is available for use in the operating systems specified in the Requirements section. It may be altered or unavailable in subsequent versions. Instead, use <a href="http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=325240">Microsoft PlayReady</a>.
]


The <b>GenerateSigningKeyPair</b> method generates a public and private <a href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/hardware/dn895751">key</a> pair that are used to sign the DRM header object.




## -parameters




### -param pwszPrivKey [out]

Pointer to a wide-character <b>null</b>-terminated string containing the private key. Set to <b>NULL</b> to retrieve the size of the string, which is returned in <i>pcwchPrivKeyLength</i>. Use this key to set the <a href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/0f32e63d-d416-4a1d-b10c-2534b747adf3">DRM_HeaderSignPrivKey</a> property.


### -param pcwchPrivKeyLength [in, out]

Pointer to a <b>DWORD</b> containing the size, in wide characters, of <i>pwszPrivKey</i>. This size includes the terminating <b>null</b> character.


### -param pwszPubKey [out]

Pointer to a wide-character <b>null</b>-terminated string containing the public key. Set to <b>NULL</b> to retrieve the size of the string, which is returned in <i>pcwchPubKeyLength</i>. This key is shared only with the license server; it enables the license server to verify the signature of the DRM header object when users attempt to obtain a content license for a file.


### -param pcwchPubKeyLength [in, out]

Pointer to a <b>DWORD</b> containing the size, in wide characters, of <i>pwsPubKey</i>. This size includes the terminating <b>null</b> character.


## -returns



If the method succeeds, it returns S_OK. If it fails, it returns an <b>HRESULT</b> error code.




## -remarks



Do not confuse the signature that is applied to the ASF header object, using these keys, with the signature that is applied to the DRM header object by using the <a href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/b7083237-da11-4f31-a143-c0278a54b5a6">DRM_LASignaturePrivKey</a> and other properties that make up the digital signature object in the file.

The keys generated by this method are the basis for revocation lists, so the number of different key pairs you use will be based on your particular business needs. In general, the same key pair should be used for some set of content that forms a logical group and that shares the same revocation list.




## -see-also




<a href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/fd466cf8-b1f8-49aa-a486-8fd347b29178">IWMDRMWriter Interface</a>
 

 

