---
UID: The unique id of the API.
title: The title of the API.
author: Authoring type of the API(ie windows-driver-content)
description: Description of API
old-location: 
old-project: 
ms.assetid: The MSDN ID of the API
ms.author: The Author of the API
ms.date: The date of API publishing
ms.keywords: 
ms.prod: windows-hardware
ms.technology: windows-devices
ms.topic: The topic type of the API (ie enum)
req.header: The main header of the API
req.include-header: The included headers of the API
req.target-type: 
req.target-min-winverclnt: 
req.target-min-winversvr: 
req.kmdf-ver: 
req.umdf-ver: 
req.ddi-compliance: 
req.unicode-ansi: 
req.idl: 
req.max-support: 
req.namespace: 
req.assembly: 
req.type-library: 
---

# _WMReaderClientInfo structure


## -description



The <b>WM_READER_CLIENTINFO</b> structure describes the client reader (player) accessing the media stream.




## -struct-fields




### -field cbSize

Size of the structure in bytes.


### -field wszLang

Two-letter or three-letter language code.


### -field wszBrowserUserAgent

The browser's user-agent string.


### -field wszBrowserWebPage

Web page that contains the <a href="wmformat_glossary.htm">plug-in</a>.


### -field qwReserved

Reserved.


### -field pReserved

Unused. See Remarks.


### -field wszHostExe

Host application's .exe file; for example, Iexplore.exe.


### -field qwHostVersion

Version number of the host application. The value is four unsigned <b>WORD</b> values packed into a 64-bit integer. When the client information is logged, each <b>WORD</b> value is unpacked and translated into its decimal equivalent. For example, if the value is 0x0001000200030004, the version number is logged as "1.2.3.4".


### -field wszPlayerUserAgent

String identifying the player application. For example, "WMPlayer/9.0.0.0" identifies version 9 of the Windows Media Player.


## -remarks



In earlier versions of this SDK, the <b>pReserved</b> member was named <b>wszHostUniquePID</b>. The application used this member to specify an ID to send to the server. In the current version, the reader object automatically generates a GUID for the ID, so this structure member is obsolete. It is present only to provide binary compatibility with earlier versions of the SDK.

The GUID generated by the reader object represents a unique user on a particular computer. The reader object stores this value in the registry. If the registry entry does not exist, the SDK dynamically creates it. For more information, see <a href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/818b7a0e-bbf4-42b2-a5a4-75078834c9f6">IWMReaderAdvanced2::SetLogClientID</a>.




## -see-also




<a href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/dec93690-8285-4672-bf70-63f3c10294bf">IWMReaderAdvanced::SetClientInfo</a>



<a href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/hardware/dn927277">Structures</a>
 

 

