---
UID: The unique id of the API.
title: The title of the API.
author: Authoring type of the API(ie windows-driver-content)
description: Description of API
old-location: 
old-project: 
ms.assetid: The MSDN ID of the API
ms.author: The Author of the API
ms.date: The date of API publishing
ms.keywords: 
ms.prod: windows-hardware
ms.technology: windows-devices
ms.topic: The topic type of the API (ie enum)
req.header: The main header of the API
req.include-header: The included headers of the API
req.target-type: 
req.target-min-winverclnt: 
req.target-min-winversvr: 
req.kmdf-ver: 
req.umdf-ver: 
req.ddi-compliance: 
req.unicode-ansi: 
req.idl: 
req.max-support: 
req.namespace: 
req.assembly: 
req.type-library: 
---

# ScriptStringOut function


## -description


Displays a string generated by a prior call to <a href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/6d0e7070-159e-436b-85b5-cabb3da83f5e">ScriptStringAnalyse</a> and optionally adds highlighting.


## -parameters




### -param ssa [in]

A <a href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/aa93d631-3cfc-449d-9d04-c1f851129c6c">SCRIPT_STRING_ANALYSIS</a> structure for the string.


### -param iX [in]

The x-coordinate of the reference point used to position the string.


### -param iY [in]

The y-coordinate of the reference point used to position the string.


### -param uOptions [in]

Options specifying the use of the application-defined rectangle. This parameter can be set to 0 or to any of the following values. The values can be combined with binary OR.

<table>
<tr>
<th>Value</th>
<th>Meaning</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td width="40%"><a id="ETO_CLIPPED"></a><a id="eto_clipped"></a><dl>
<dt><b>ETO_CLIPPED</b></dt>
</dl>
</td>
<td width="60%">
Clip text to the rectangle.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td width="40%"><a id="ETO_OPAQUE"></a><a id="eto_opaque"></a><dl>
<dt><b>ETO_OPAQUE</b></dt>
</dl>
</td>
<td width="60%">
Use current background color to fill the rectangle.

</td>
</tr>
</table>
 


### -param prc [in, optional]

Pointer to a <a href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/hardware/ff569234">RECT</a> structure that defines the rectangle to use. If <i>uOptions</i> is set to ETO_OPAQUE and <b>NULL</b> is provided for <i>prc</i>, the function succeeds and returns S_OK. However, if the application sets <i>uOptions</i> to ETO_CLIPPING and provides <b>NULL</b> for <i>prc</i>, the function returns E_INVALIDARG. The application can set this parameter to <b>NULL</b> to indicate that no option is needed.


### -param iMinSel [in]

Zero-based index specifying the starting position in the string. For no selection, the application should set <i>iMinSel</i> &gt;= <i>iMaxSel</i>.


### -param iMaxSel [in]

Zero-based index specifying the ending position in the string.


### -param fDisabled [in]

<b>TRUE</b> if the operating system applies disabled-text highlighting by setting the background color to COLOR_HIGHLIGHT behind all selected characters. The application can set this parameter to <b>FALSE</b> if the operating system applies enabled-text highlighting by setting the background color to COLOR_HIGHLIGHT and the text color to COLOR_HIGHLIGHTTEXT for each selected character.


## -returns



Returns S_OK if successful. The function returns a nonzero <b>HRESULT</b> value if it does not succeed. The application can't test the return value with the <b>SUCCEEDED</b> and <b>FAILED</b> macros.




## -remarks



To use this function, the application needs to specify SSA_GLYPHS in its original call to <a href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/6d0e7070-159e-436b-85b5-cabb3da83f5e">ScriptStringAnalyse</a>.

The application should not use <a href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/422868c5-14c9-4374-9cc5-b7bf91ab9eb4">SetTextAlign</a> with TA_UPDATECP when using <b>ScriptStringOut</b> because selected text cannot be rendered correctly. If the application must use this flag, it can unset and reset the flag as necessary to avoid the problem.

<div class="alert"><b>Important</b>  Starting with Windows 8: To maintain the ability to run on Windows 7, a module that uses Uniscribe must specify Usp10.lib before gdi32.lib in its library list.</div>
<div> </div>



## -see-also




<a href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/aa93d631-3cfc-449d-9d04-c1f851129c6c">SCRIPT_STRING_ANALYSIS</a>



<a href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/6d0e7070-159e-436b-85b5-cabb3da83f5e">ScriptStringAnalyse</a>



<a href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/de7a882f-ed74-4be2-b66d-59c2e50dc07a">Uniscribe</a>



<a href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/876e36f5-a91c-490b-87bd-b7cb4993f8c4">Uniscribe Functions</a>
 

 

