---
UID: The unique id of the API.
title: The title of the API.
author: Authoring type of the API(ie windows-driver-content)
description: Description of API
old-location: 
old-project: 
ms.assetid: The MSDN ID of the API
ms.author: The Author of the API
ms.date: The date of API publishing
ms.keywords: 
ms.prod: windows-hardware
ms.technology: windows-devices
ms.topic: The topic type of the API (ie enum)
req.header: The main header of the API
req.include-header: The included headers of the API
req.target-type: 
req.target-min-winverclnt: 
req.target-min-winversvr: 
req.kmdf-ver: 
req.umdf-ver: 
req.ddi-compliance: 
req.unicode-ansi: 
req.idl: 
req.max-support: 
req.namespace: 
req.assembly: 
req.type-library: 
---

# PIBIO_STORAGE_CLOSE_DATABASE_FN callback function


## -description


Called by the Windows Biometric Framework to close the database associated with the pipeline and free all related resources.


## -parameters




### -param Pipeline [in, out]

Pointer to a <a href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/b5fc2b14-b0b6-4327-a42a-ecae41c3e12a">WINBIO_PIPELINE</a> structure associated with the biometric unit performing the operation.



## -returns



If the function succeeds, it returns S_OK. If the function fails, it must return one of the following <b>HRESULT</b> values to indicate the error.

<table>
<tr>
<th>Return code</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td width="40%">
<dl>
<dt><b>E_POINTER</b></dt>
</dl>
</td>
<td width="60%">
The <i>Pipeline</i> argument cannot be <b>NULL</b>.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td width="40%">
<dl>
<dt><b><b>WINBIO_E_DATABASE_CANT_CLOSE</b></b></dt>
</dl>
</td>
<td width="60%">
An unspecified problem has caused the request to fail.

</td>
</tr>
</table>
 




## -remarks



The Windows Biometric Framework does not mandate a particular caching policy, but if the database maintains an in-memory cache of records, this function should flush unwritten records to storage.


This function must invalidate any result sets generated by previous database query operations.



#### Examples

The following pseudocode shows one possible implementation of this function. The example does not compile. You must adapt it to suit your purpose.

<div class="code"><span codelanguage="ManagedCPlusPlus"><table>
<tr>
<th>C++</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>
<pre>/////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
//
// StorageAdapterCloseDatabase
//
// Purpose:
//      Close the database associated with the pipeline and free all 
//      related resources.
//
// Parameters:
//      Pipeline -  Pointer to a WINBIO_PIPELINE structure associated with 
//                  the biometric unit performing the operation.
//
static HRESULT
WINAPI
StorageAdapterCloseDatabase(
    __inout PWINBIO_PIPELINE Pipeline
    )
{
    HRESULT hr = S_OK;

    // Verify that the Pipeline parameter is not NULL.
    if (!ARGUMENT_PRESENT(Pipeline))
    {
        hr = E_POINTER;
        goto cleanup;
    }

    // Retrieve the context from the pipeline.
    PWINBIO_STORAGE_CONTEXT storageContext = 
           (PWINBIO_STORAGE_CONTEXT)Pipeline-&gt;StorageContext;

    // Verify the pipeline state.
    if (storageContext == NULL ||
        Pipeline-&gt;StorageHandle == INVALID_HANDLE_VALUE)
    {
        hr = WINBIO_E_INVALID_DEVICE_STATE;
        goto cleanup;
    }

    // Remove any data structures attached to the context and remove the
    // context from the pipeline.
    _CleanupCryptoContext(&amp;storageContext-&gt;CryptoContext);
    StorageAdapterClearContext(Pipeline);

    // Close the database file handle.
    CloseHandle( Pipeline-&gt;StorageHandle );
    Pipeline-&gt;StorageHandle = INVALID_HANDLE_VALUE;

    // Call a custom function (_PurgeDeletedRecords) to remove deleted records
    // from the database file.
    _PurgeDeletedRecords( 
        &amp;storageContext-&gt;DatabaseId, 
        (LPCWSTR)&amp;storageContext-&gt;FilePath
        );

    // Overwrite the database ID and path.
    SecureZeroMemory(&amp;storageContext-&gt;DatabaseId, sizeof(WINBIO_UUID));
    SecureZeroMemory(storageContext-&gt;FilePath, (MAX_PATH+1)*sizeof(WCHAR));

cleanup:

    return hr;
}
</pre>
</td>
</tr>
</table></span></div>



## -see-also




<a href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/5f04d912-f9bc-41d4-aa9e-b843e4b5a994">Plug-in Functions</a>



<a href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/7b9e034e-51d4-4209-9092-14e21e9fff3c">StorageAdapterCreateDatabase</a>



<a href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/c1fc2f3f-034b-4546-aeee-1d1a38695793">StorageAdapterEraseDatabase</a>



<a href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/4f3dfa67-5020-461a-b3d1-33c948129bdf">StorageAdapterOpenDatabase</a>
 

 

