---
UID: The unique id of the API.
title: The title of the API.
author: Authoring type of the API(ie windows-driver-content)
description: Description of API
old-location: 
old-project: 
ms.assetid: The MSDN ID of the API
ms.author: The Author of the API
ms.date: The date of API publishing
ms.keywords: 
ms.prod: windows-hardware
ms.technology: windows-devices
ms.topic: The topic type of the API (ie enum)
req.header: The main header of the API
req.include-header: The included headers of the API
req.target-type: 
req.target-min-winverclnt: 
req.target-min-winversvr: 
req.kmdf-ver: 
req.umdf-ver: 
req.ddi-compliance: 
req.unicode-ansi: 
req.idl: 
req.max-support: 
req.namespace: 
req.assembly: 
req.type-library: 
---

# tagEapHostPeerMethodResult structure


## -description


The <b>EapHostPeerMethodResult</b> structure contains the result data generated by EAPHost during an authentication session that is then passed to an EAP method.


## -struct-fields




### -field fIsSuccess

If <b>TRUE</b>, the supplicant was successfully authenticated; if <b>FALSE</b>, it was not.


### -field dwFailureReasonCode

Contains a reason code if the supplicant could not be authenticated.


### -field fSaveConnectionData

If <b>TRUE</b>, the connection data specified in <b>pConnectionData</b> data must be persisted to disk; otherwise, it does not need to be saved.


### -field dwSizeofConnectionData

The size, in bytes, of <b>pConnectionData</b>.


### -field pConnectionData.size_is

 


### -field pConnectionData.size_is.dwSizeofConnectionData

 


### -field pConnectionData

A pointer to a byte buffer that contains information on the connection over which the EAP authentication session is held.


### -field fSaveUserData

If <b>TRUE</b>, the user data specified in <b>pUserData</b> data must be persisted to disk; otherwise, it does not need to be saved.


### -field dwSizeofUserData

The size, in bytes, of <b>pUserData</b>.


### -field pUserData.size_is

 


### -field pUserData.size_is.dwSizeofUserData

 


### -field pUserData

A pointer to a  byte buffer that contains information on the supplicant user that requested the EAP authentication session.


### -field pAttribArray

Pointer to an <a href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/2f88b475-a4ae-4c40-b0f8-2dd05c676619">EAP_ATTRIBUTES</a> array structure that contains attributes of the authentication session.


### -field isolationState

An <a href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/460e447b-87c6-41df-8e8b-055e95426ca6">ISOLATION_STATE</a>link value that indicates the isolation state of the authentication session connection.


### -field pEapMethodInfo

A pointer to an <a href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/89b5dcbd-afa9-40a8-ab04-2caee01ce0a3">EAP_METHOD_INFO</a> structure that contains information about the EAP method that performed authentication for the supplicant.


### -field pEapError

A pointer to the <a href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/6af8cb67-da77-491a-98de-df10b6b7f46d">EAP_ERROR</a> structure that contains any errors raised by EAPHost during  the execution of this function call. After consuming the error data, this memory must be freed by calling <a href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/36f9b5dd-821d-4cc5-a1dd-587098635d17">EapHostPeerFreeEapError</a>.


## -see-also




<a href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/77595f36-140d-4d8e-af8e-63e9de0031c4">EAPHost Supplicant Structures</a>



<a href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/e1f0fc05-d9cd-4a37-ba74-89ac9948a292">EapHostPeerGetResult</a>
 

 

