---
UID: NF:processthreadsapi.SetProcessDynamicEHContinuationTargets
title: SetProcessDynamicEHContinuationTargets
ms.date: 4/28/2020
targetos: Windows
description: Sets dynamic exception handling continuation targets for the specified process.
req.assembly: 
req.construct-type: function
req.ddi-compliance: 
req.dll: 
req.header: processthreadsapi.h
req.idl: 
req.include-header: 
req.irql: 
req.kmdf-ver: 
req.lib: 
req.max-support: 
req.namespace: 
req.redist: 
req.target-min-winverclnt: Windows 10 Build 20348
req.target-min-winversvr: Windows 10 Build 20348
req.target-type: 
req.type-library: 
req.umdf-ver: 
req.unicode-ansi: 
topic_type:
 - apiref
api_type:
api_location:
 - processthreadsapi.h
api_name:
 - SetProcessDynamicEHContinuationTargets
f1_keywords:
 - SetProcessDynamicEHContinuationTargets
 - processthreadsapi/SetProcessDynamicEHContinuationTargets
dev_langs:
 - c++
---

## -description

Sets dynamic exception handling continuation targets for the specified process.

## -parameters

### -param Process

A handle to the process. This handle must have the <b>PROCESS_SET_INFORMATION</b> access right. 
For more information, see <a href="/windows/desktop/ProcThread/process-security-and-access-rights">Process Security and Access Rights</a>.

### -param NumberOfTargets

Supplies the number of dynamic exception handling continuation targets to set.

### -param Targets

A pointer to an array of dynamic exception handling continuation targets. For more information on this structure, see <a href="/windows/win32/api/winnt/ns-winnt-process_dynamic_eh_continuation_target">PROCESS_DYNAMIC_EH_CONTINUATION_TARGET</a>.

## -returns

If the function succeeds, the return value is nonzero.

If the function fails, the return value is zero. To get extended error information, call 
<a href="/windows/desktop/api/errhandlingapi/nf-errhandlingapi-getlasterror">GetLastError</a>.
Note that even if the function fails, a portion of the supplied continuation targets may have been successfully processed.
The caller needs to check the flags in each individual continuation target specified via <i>Targets</i> to determine if it was successfully processed.

## -remarks

If user-mode Hardware-enforced Stack Protection is enabled for a process, when calling APIs that modify the execution context of a thread such as 
<a href="/windows/win32/api/winnt/nf-winnt-rtlrestorecontext">RtlRestoreContext</a> and 
<a href="/windows/win32/api/processthreadsapi/nf-processthreadsapi-setthreadcontext">SetThreadContext</a>, 
validation is performed on the Instruction Pointer specified in the new execution context.
<i>RtlRestoreContext</i> is used during <a href="/windows/win32/debug/about-structured-exception-handling">Structured Exception Handling</a> (SEH) 
exception unwinding to unwind to the target frame that contains the `__except` block and to start executing code at the continuation target.
Therefore, the operating system needs to know the instruction addresses of all the valid continuation targets in order to allow the unwind operation via <i>RtlRestoreContext</i>.
For compiled binaries, the list of continuation targets is generated by the linker and stored in the binary image.
For dynamic code, the continuation targets need to be specified using <i>SetProcessDynamicEHContinuationTargets</i>.

## -see-also

